- [Overview](#overview)
  - [Elements of Story](#elements-of-story)
  - [Triangle of Wierdness](#triangle-of-wierdness)
  - [In Service to Gameplay](#in-service-to-gameplay)
  - [Ending Story](#ending-story)
  - [Title](#title)
  - [Characters](#characters)
  - [Licenses](#licenses)
- [Topics](#topics)
- [References](#references)

# Overview

The story is helpful, but too much story will ruin the experience. Games without
stories can still create a **narrative**, an order of events. The goal of
experiences is to create rising emotional states for the player. When designing
the game, it is important to keep the narrative in mind. Gameplay and story are
different concepts.

- There must be enough details for people to want to follow along

## Elements of Story

- **Exposition**
- **Conflict**
- **Rising Action**
- **Climax**
- **Falling**
- **Resolution**

## Triangle of Wierdness

**The triangle of wierdness** is composed of three corners, **activities,
character, and world**. The designer should choose one corner of the triangle;
choosing two would alienate the audience.

## In Service to Gameplay

**Stories should be made in service to gameplay**. To satisfy players that want
a deeper experience, provide details that don’t get the way of the story. Some
stories need to be revealed through gameplay and level design so some players
don’t skip it entirely. Stories can be started late into the game. To do this,
stories can be told through flashbacks or in a non-chronological order. Stories
also need to be kept alive. Professional writers introduce a change in plot
every 15 minutes. Surprise ending and characters with amnesia have become too
common. Revealing a secret can get the audience involved ahead of time Gameplay
needs to support themes and not every game needs to be about saving the world.

## Ending Story

The end of a story should come when the designer deems that the players have
felt satisfied

## Title

There are multiple ways of creating titles: **literal titles, action/cool title,
punny title (clever title), purple cow title (a strange title that captures
curiosity), dramatic title (ex. the sum of all fears), referential title (no
idea of the game until playing)** Short titles are easier to remember, print,
fit into logo and display. Titles should be made sooner than later.

## Characters

For players to feel anything about the death of characters, they need to care
about them first. Make players spend time with a character can create care. The
actions of characters need to match their personalities and motives. Names of
characters should match the impression of characters.

## Licenses

When working with a licensor, know the material well, learn the big issues
early, remember that licensor have veto powers, get as much documentation from
the licensor as possible, take your reference pictures if possible, and respect
the license.

# Topics

- [Empathy](Empathy.md)

# References

- [The elements of a story | Reading | Khan Academy](https://youtu.be/Zr1xLtSMMLo)
